.TH LIVEOS_LIB 3
.SH NAME
liveos_lib.sh - Live Operating System Library (BASH)
.SH LOCATION
/usr/bin/scripts/liveos_lib.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
BASH library with common functions and variables for LIVEOS(Ninja OS based)
distros
.SH VERSIONING
	Versioning information is sourced from a liveos_version.conf file.
Nominally this is placed in /var/liveos_version.conf. However this can be
overrridden by local copies either in \$HOME or present directory.

	$OSNAME		- Name of the Operating System
.br
	$OSVERSION 	- Version of the operating System
.br
	$OSSLUG		- is a UNIX santized version of $OSNAME
.br
	$FORMAT_VER	- version of the format of /var/liveos_version.conf
.br
	$BOOT_BACKGROUND- the jpg from the syslinux splash screen
.br
	$BACKGROUND_SHA256	- hash sum of the background
.br
	$PART_SIZE	- Parition size in megabytes
.br
	$LINE5		- vestige from the old /var/LIVEOS_VERSION.TXT file
.br
	$CONF_KEYNAME	- GPG Keyname as read from the conf file
.br
	$CONF_KEYSIG	- Full GPG fingerprint as read from the conf file
.br
	$SCRIPT_NAME	- Name of the originating script, with no path.

.SH SYSTEM
	$BOOTDEV	- Block device of the drive that the Ninja OS resides on
.br
	$BOOTPART	- Parition of that drive with /boot, generally the real
.br
			  physical partition with the OS.
.br
	$CMDLINE	- The contents of /proc/cmdline. Useful for checking
.br
			  boot time options
.br
	gpg_check_key()	- function that checks the gpg key that is used vs gpg
.br
			  key reported by the configuration file. returns 0 for
.br
			  good key, 1 for a bad one.

	read_old_version_file() - function that reads old LIVEOS_VERSION.TXT
.br
				  file
.br
	check_sudo()	- checks if sudo works for granting root access. returns
.br
			  "TRUE" or "FALSE"
