.TH NINJA_FORGE 1
.SH NAME
.B ninja_forge - 
Forges new Ninja OS usb sticks.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ninja_forge
[\fB\-k\fR \fIPACKAGE_FILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-package\fR \fIPACKAGE_FILE\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR]
[\fB\-\-meta\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-\-hash\fR]
[\fB\-g\fR]
[\fB\-\-gpg\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-\-part\-num\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR]
[\fB\-\-noop\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-\-partonly\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR]
[\fB\-\-upgrade\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR]
[\fB\-\-verify\fR]
.IR block_device
.SH DESCRIPTION
	Ninja Forge is a tool that creates new Ninja OS USB sticks. It functions
by formating a drive and then reconstituting Ninja OS from .img files generated
previously by Ninja Clone. You can use any USB stick that is larger than the
partition size(see liveos_version.conf). Ninja Forge will throw a warning for
USB sticks less than double the size of the image.

	When partitioning, it makes two partitions. One OS partition, and the
other blank, presumably for data. The OS partition is whatever size is set in
liveos_version.conf and the blank partition is the size of the remainder of the
USB drive. Upgrades however can write to any partition you so choose(see -p
below).

	It is possible to upgrade a previous install using --upgrade that
preserves data or other contents on the flash drive. Please note that --upgrade
defaults to partition one, and does not checking to ensure this is correct. If
Ninja OS is not installed to Parition 1, you will need to set partition manually
with -p

We take one parameter on the command line, and thats the block device name
(/dev/sdX)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-package " " \fIpackage_file.liveos.zip\fR
Forge from a \fIliveos_zip(5)\fR format package instead of base files. This
format is used by \fIninja_clone\fR. WARNING!: This needs extra disk space to
temporarily decompress the files.

Package Options:
.TP
	
.BR \-m ", " \-\-meta
Prints Package metadata and versioning in addition to other operations
.TP
	
.BR \-a ", " \-\-hash
Checks hash sums in addition to other operations.
.TP
	
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gpg
Check GPG signatures in addition to other operations.
.TP
	
.BR \-o ", " \-\-noop
Don't format or copy data, for use with -m, -a and -g.(i.e. just check metadata,
hash sums and signatures)
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-part-num
Disk Partition Number. Default is 1. i.e. as /dev/sda1
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-partonly
Format the disk and partition only. Do not copy any data.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-upgrade
Upgrade from a previous version of Ninja OS. i.e. skip partition and formating.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verify
Verify a package, alias for --meta --hash --noop --gpg --package --verify
\fIfilename\fR

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIliveos_zip(5)\fR \fIninja_clone(1)\fR
