.TH LIVEOS_ZIP 5
.SH NAME
liveos.zip packaging format for distributing live operating systems.
.SH DESCRIPTION
liveos.zip is a software distribution archive based on the ZIP archiving format.
File extension is for files that end in .liveos.zip.

A .liveos.zip archive contains a disk image, the bootloader, MD5 hashsums,
optionally GPG detached signatures, documentation, and an index file
documenting its contents.

These files can be decompressed and installed on their own, or they can be
manipulated with the \fIninja_forge\fR and \fIninja_clone\fR commands.

.SH STRUCTURE
Filenames and system commands are highlighted with \fIitalics\fR and key content
inside files with \fBbold\fR.


.I /
.br
  \fIliveos_version.conf\fR - index file with metadata about package. Uses
  key=pair values to describe the contents. The following keys are recognized:

	\fBFORMAT_VER\fR - version of LIVEOS.ZIP being used.
.br
	\fBOSNAME\fR - Name of OS in the package. \fBOSSLUG\fR is made from this value
.br
	by removing spaces and moving all chars to lowercase
.br
	\fBOSVERSION\fR - Version of the OS in the package.
.br
	\fBOSARCH\fR - CPU archecture the OS is compiled for.(i686 or x86_64)	
.br
	\fBPART_SIZE\fR - Size of the partition that the OS will take up on the disk.
.br
	This needs to match the size of the .img file
.br
	\fBBOOT_BACKGROUND\fR - JPEG file that is shown on the boot loader screen
.br
	\fBBACKGROUND_SHA256\fR - Hash sum of said JPEG. This is done for authenticity
.br
	reasons.
.br
	\fBCONF_KEYNAME\fR - the short GPG keyname of the OS that is used to sign
.br
	the package, and for integrity checks.
.br
	\fBCONF_KEYSIG\fR - the full fingerprint of the key the OS uses for integrity
.br
	checking.

  \fI$OSSLUG_$OSVERSION.img\fR - the main image file with the OS. this is a snap
  shot of a partition. OSSLUG and OSVERSION are the name and version of the OS.

  \fIninjabootsector$OSVERSION.img\fR - the 440 byte syslinux MBR boot sector that
  corresponds with the live image. This gets installed at the beginning of the
  drive

  \fIscripts/\fR

    \fIninjaforge.sh\fR - Forge script that installs the contained OS onto a USB
    Stick. This is the same as \fIninja_forge\fR, in Ninja OS.

    \fIliveos_lib.sh\fR - bash library for \fIninjaforge.sh\fR as used in Ninja
    OS.

  \fIhash/\fR

    \fImd5\fR - File with MD5 hashsums of critical components to check against
    damage in transport. Will not ensure authenticity. key=value paired file.
    key/file MD5 sums are as follows :

	\fBMAIN_HASH\fR - \fI$OSSLUG_$OSVERSION.img\fR
.br
	\fBBS_HASH\fR - \fIninjabootsector$OSVERSION.img\fR
.br
	\fBINDEX_HASH\fR - \fIliveos_version.conf\fR
.br
	\fBLIB_SH_HASH\fR - \fIliveos_lib.sh\fR
.br
	\fBFORGE_SH_HASH\fR - \fIninjaforge.sh\fR

  \fIgpg/\fR
    This directory optionally contains GPG signatures of files in the archive.
    Optional, because only the OS author will be able to generate these
    signatures, because access to the private GPG key is needed. There is no
    automated tooling for this, and that is done so on purpose. The following
    signature files are recognized, and corresspond to their base filename:

	\fI$OSSLUG_$OSVERSION.img.sig\fR
.br
	\fIninjabootsector$OSVERSION.img.sig\fR
.br
	\fIliveos_version.conf.sig\fR
.br
	\fIliveos_lib.sh.sig\fR
.br
	\fIninjaforge.sh.sig\fR

  \fIdoc/\fR

    \fIREADME\fR - README file with install instructions

    \fIlicense.txt\fR - Licensing agreement. Terms and Conditions of use for
    the OS contained in the package. Both Ninja OS and the .liveos.zip format
    and all tooling are licensed for public use under the GPLv3, and all
    derivative work must follow.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIninja_forge(1)\fR \fIninja_clone(1)\fR \fIzip(1)\fR \fIunzip(1)\fR
\fIliveos_version_conf(5)\fR
